now in the previous video we proved the
appearance of our app by creating a
custom adapter you can see the new
display of the app now now this let us
use our own layout so that we can
display different widgets in the
ListView
rather than having to display all the
data in the single textview widget that
the basic array adapter allows now this
gives us far more control over what
appears in each line in the ListView and
obviously that culminated in the display
that you can see on the screen there now
but the actual code for our adapter
isn't very efficient though so we come
back and have a look or go back to the
code feed adapter they have a look at
this get view function it inflates a new
view every time it's called and that's
this code here on line 29 now that means
that if we used it to display a thousand
items it would create one thousand views
which is costly in terms of both time
and memory also the find view by ID
function is very slow because it has to
scan the layout from the start each time
it's called checking to see if each
widget is the one we want and it gets
worse than that if you start scrolling
up and down those thousand items it'll
create a new view every time a new one
comes onto the screen you know I can
demonstrate that but I should mention
that what I'm about to do may not work
when you come to watch this video and
that's because I'm going to abuse the
hippo feed now Apple provide a top ten
in a top-25 version of each feed but we
can request the top 200 at least I can
at the moment there's no guarantee that
this will continue to work in the future
but even if it doesn't you see the basic
principle with just a top 25 it just
won't be quite as dramatic so we're
going to start and make sure you cleared
your log cap so in my case I haven't got
it on but I want to click it there and
I'm just kind of clear that even though
it does usually get clear each time we
start the app and what we're going to do
is we're going to stop running the app
on the device I'm just going to click on
stop it by the way you can use the menu
to stop as well down here but normally I
just click on them so you can see me
doing clicking on the stop pulling into
the toolbar now what I'm going to do is
edit the URL and main activity to show
the top 200 entries we can do that by
turning this limb
at the moment it's set to 25 that's
changed that to 200 and as I said if you
get an error when you come to trial this
change the limit back to 25 the
demonstration will still work it just
won't be quite as dramatic all right the
other thing I'm going to do is make
another quick change to the adapter now
this isn't necessary but it's gonna take
me a long time to scroll through the
list if I leave the summary in because
it occupies a lot of the screen so what
we're going to do is comment out the
code or the line rather that puts the
summary text into the text view so
that's this one here TV summary text
equals current app summary little
comment that out so let's go ahead and
run the app it'll either come over here
to the a drawer profiler tap at the
bottom of the screen there's also a
button on the toolbar towards the
right-hand side as well if you want to
do it that way it was going to put that
emulator on the screen
now this is very important if you're
running on Windows you may see a Windows
security alert dialog popping up when
you first launch the profiler if you do
make sure you tick the box that allows
access on private networks whether you
undertake the other box to allow access
on public networks is down to your
attitude to security I strongly advise
you to one ticket what's important
because things won't work otherwise is
to definitely take the Private Networks
box once you've ticked the box click the
allow access button so that's for
Windows now this profiler that to
investigate things like memory usage on
your device or emulator so let's
actually have a take a look at the
memory usage
now the profile is showing a real-time
view of the CPU usage memory and network
on the device
now we're only interested in the memory
at the moment but it's worth playing
with this profiler and checking out how
you're finished apps behave if you get
excessive CPU or network accesses or the
memory starts getting eaten up when your
apps running then you should really
investigate the cause now you can't
drill down into each of these but just
clicking on them then you move the mouse
down to memory and click you can see
that we've got a more detailed version
of memory usage I'm just going to make
the profile a little bit larger on the
screen so we can see what's going on now
usage is fairly level at the moment
that's because we're not doing anything
now before we start I suggest you click
on the trash can icon in the profilers
tool bar over here that forces a garbage
collection so that any unused memory can
be reclaimed that way no we really know
that we're looking at changes that our
app causes I'm going to do that now now
the graph shows a trash can in the
timeline you can see that over here now
and then we drop down a little bit as
result and we're just clicking again and
you can see how the memory goes there I
want to do that one more time you can
see that it's fairly stable in here when
I'm flicking it so we're going to fill
this table amount of memory in my
particular case
I've got total memory usage at the
moment at the top their showing is 27
megabytes but obviously the numbers will
vary depending on your operating system
and everyone else is running if on your
emulator etc now when we click the trash
corner icon more testing on windows we
didn't get those little icons in the
timeline that you saw on my Mac garbage
collection is still kicked in there so
don't worry if you don't see it it'll
icons alright so now that we've got that
going it's time to switch to the
emulator and start scrolling so I'm
going to go back to the emulator we're
going to start scrolling now
and depending on how fast I'll scroll I
can get different bellies we can see
that I'm pretty easily getting up to 48
47 48 megabytes
I was going back up again now over 50
now so you can see and that will depend
on whether you're running on Windows Mac
or Linux as a general rule and also what
else you've got running on the emulator
but you can see that basically the
memory went up significantly and what it
was running before doing it so while I'm
scrolling through this list an automatic
garbage collection is actually kicking
in and reducing the total memory
allocation but we're still getting quite
high numbers you can see they're like
over 50 megabytes is in use and also
keep in mind that our views are really
quite simple as well we're not
displaying graphics or anything fancy
literally just three textview widgets
now garbage collection is also a costly
exercise so scrolling sometimes pauses
while that's going on to the user the
app seems to freeze for half a second
that can be a little bit annoying so you
can see it's a little bit about it's not
really that prominent online at the
moment but if I scroll you see it's a
bit of jerkiness that actually happens
there and that's the garbage collection
I clicked are kicking in you can see the
icon there that has appeared on the
screen
there's a big pause there and you can
see the garbage collector icons
appearing in the right-hand corner there
all right so the point is that it can be
very costly exercise and you know it's
really important to be looking after the
amount of memory that your apps actually
using so make a general note of whatever
figures you've got when you've done this
first bit of testing what we start up
using the app I think was around about
26 or 27 megabytes and then rows we
easily got it to appear over 50
megabytes and at the moment it's still
on 47
so what we're going to do next we're
going to improve the efficiency of our
adapter and then run this test again
what I'm going to do is close down the
profiler and looking at our code this is
a lot of code here on line 29 so this
line is a problem where we inflate a new
view every time the get view methods
called no there's actually no need to do
that because the ListView provides us
with a view to reuse when it can so
that's why that tough ELISA so get view
malfunction that's what it's convert
view our parameters for if the ListView
has a view that it can reuse it passes a
reference to it in convert view
you know until the view is scrolled off
the screen there won't be a view to
reuse so we have to check if convert
view is null and only create a new view
if it is null so I'm going to alter they
get through function so that it uses the
convert through argument it only creates
a new view if convert these null us
convert views of argument we need our
own view object to store the reference
in let's go ahead and do that all right
so what we're going to do is put a Val
view here we're going to put : view then
the next line or post I will just press
ENTER there and leave the equals there
and now what we can do is check to see
if convert these null and reuse it if it
isn't so instead of just putting the
conus we had that we kind of come back
here and put over here we can put if
parentheses convertview
is equal to no code block and then we're
going to put view equals then we're
going to grab this code here else
what we're going to do is we kind of
what view equals convert view so
basically now we're we're reusing the
view give them back to the adapter by
the list view and only creating a new
view if the ListView didn't give us one
to reuse now ignore this sub warning
over here in the right hand side about
the assignment can be lifted out of the
if it's correct we could but Android
studio doesn't know what we're going to
do next and then we wouldn't be able to
treat the if as an expression now what
I'm going to do is add some logging so
that we can tell when a new views been
created or when we were using one so
let's go ahead and do that as well so in
the test for null well actually put a
log entry in there so lagdi tag and in
double quotes we're going to put get
view called with null convert view and
then anything else we're going to do the
same put a log entry in there this time
get get view provided they convert you
okay so that's actually now we've made
those changes run the up again and see
what effect this has had on the memory
so we're going to firstly open the log
cat I'm going to clear that and I'm
going to run it I'll stop and then run
it again
and that was to make sure that the
memory wasn't being held than it was
using previously open the Android
profiler click on memory for more detail
and you can see we still got a higher
map but it's obviously nowhere near the
50 megabyte and I click on the trash can
icon a few times
you can see it's getting down to 28 now
I'm just going to do that over a few
seconds until we've got a fairly stable
amount of memory news and we can see
we're round about the amount that we're
using previously and clicking on the
garbage collector is not causing you're
not having any impact on the amount of
memory so that's good now so now if we
run though we move over to our emulator
and now let's actually start doing the
same thing again I'm gonna start
scrolling up and down notice the memory
this time when I'm doing that it seems
to be easy to scroll as well it's
quicker to scroll but the memory you can
see that it's really not going much at
all above 31 megabytes whereas before we
easily got to 50
as you can see it's far more consistent
than what it was so that's definitely an
improvement around about 231 megabytes
just by making a simple change to our
code now with more complex layouts keep
in mind that the numbers will get a lot
larger now that's a much more efficient
implementation of the get view method so
what we'll do is we'll finish the video
here and in the next one well actually
improve it even further by employing
something called the view holder pattern
so I'll see you in the next video